DOCS-3204: Add docs for add image to dataset button, incorporate into tutorials where helpful (#4244)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/data-ai/ai/create-dataset.md

To ensure a machine learning model you create performs well, you need to train it on a variety of images that cover the range of things your machine should be able to recognize.

To train a model, you need a dataset that meets the following criteria:

- the dataset contains at least 15 images
- at least 80% of the images have labels
- for each selected label, at least 10 bounding boxes exist

This page explains how to create a dataset that meets these criteria for your training purposes.

## Prerequisites

{{% expand "A machine connected to the Viam app" %}}

{{% snippet "setup.md" %}}

{{% /expand %}}

{{% expand "A camera, connected to your machine, to capture images" %}}

Follow the guide to configure a [webcam](/operate/reference/components/camera/webcam/) or another [camera component](/operate/reference/components/camera/), if you haven't already.

{{% /expand%}}

## Capture images

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Capture individual images directly into a dataset" %}}

You can add images to a dataset directly from a camera or vision component feed in the **CONTROL** or **CONFIGURATION** tabs of the Viam app.

> This technique can help you create a dataset without filling the **DATA** tab with a large number of unhelpful empty images.

Author: ```suggestion
This technique can help you create a dataset with a small number of intentionally captured images, instead of syncing a large number of empty images.
```
Great point, I definitely shouldn't have veered into qualitative wording like 'unhelpful'. Here's another stab at the same intention -- do you think this is useful, or NWW (like Prue says in GBBO, 'not worth the ~calories~ words')?

To add an image directly from a dataset from a visual feed, complete the following steps:

1. Open the **TEST** panel of any camera or vision component to view a feed of images from the camera.
1. Click the button marked with the camera icon to save the currently displayed image to a dataset:
   {{< imgproc src="/components/camera/add_image_to_dataset_button.png" alt="A button marked with the outline of a camera, emphasized in red" resize="800x" style="width:500px" class="imgzoom" >}}
1. Select an existing dataset.
1. Click **Add** to add the image to the selected dataset.

> 1. When you see a success toast that reads "Saved image to dataset", you have successfully added the image to the dataset.

Reviewer: I don't know if people generally understand what a toast is...
```suggestion
1. When you see a success notification that reads "Saved image to dataset", you have successfully added the image to the dataset.
```

Reviewer: maybe popop? Or maybe just message?

Author: I like notification -- it looks quite similar to notifications on the desktop. Message is probably the most accurate and futureproof, but lacks some of the descriptive punch of *notification*.

To view images added to your dataset, go to the **DATA** page's [**DATASETS** tab](https://app.viam.com/data/datasets) in the Viam app. Select the dataset to view the images within that dataset.

> {{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}

Reviewer: This tip is confusing. At this point we haven't done any training or annotation yet. I think it's a good tip but I think the place or framing needs to provide more context.

Use this technique to manually add tricky images where your first model version fails to your training dataset.
Annotate the tricky images, then train a new version of your model to improve your model.

{{< /alert >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Capture bulk images" %}}

To capture a large number of images for training your ML models, [Capture and sync image data](/data-ai/capture-data/capture-sync/) using the data management service with your camera.

> 

Reviewer: You'd still need to add them to the dataset I think?

Reviewer: Ah I see. You add them as the last step. That possibly needs some caveat then because if you followed one method they'll already be in the dataset

Author: Noted! I'll reword this for better parity between the tabs.

Object detection identifies and determines the location of certain objects in an image.
For example, object detection could help you identify:

- how many `pizza` objects appear on a counter
- the number of `bicycle` and `pedestrian` objects on a greenway
- which `plant` objects are popular with `deer` in your garden

To create a training set for object detection, add bounding boxes to teach your model to identify objects that you want to detect in future images.

To label an object with a bounding box:

1. Click on an image, then click the **Annotate** button in right side menu.
1. Choose an existing label or create a new label.
1. Holding the command key (on macOS), or the control key (on Linux and Windows), click and drag on the image to create the bounding box:

   {{<gif webm_src="/services/data/label-magnemite.webm" mp4_src="/services/data/label-magnemite.mp4" alt="Add a bounding box around the magnemite pokemon in an image">}}

{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}

Once created, you can move, resize, or delete the bounding box.
{{< /alert >}}

Repeat these steps for all images in the dataset.

## Add tagged images to a dataset

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab name="Viam app" %}}

> 1. Open the **DATA** page of the Viam app.

Reviewer: Consider adding a link to data page for ease of access

1. Navigate to the **ALL DATA** tab.

1. Use the checkbox in the upper left of each image to select labeled images.

1. Click the **Add to dataset** button, select a dataset, and click the **Add ... images** button to add the selected images to the dataset.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="CLI" %}}

Use the Viam CLI to filter images by label and add the filtered images to a dataset:

1. First, run the following command to create a dataset, if you haven't already:

   ```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
   viam dataset create --org-id=<org-id> --name=<dataset-name>
   ```

   This command will output a dataset ID.
   Pass this dataset ID in the next step to add images to this dataset.

1. Run the following [command](/dev/tools/cli/#dataset) to add all images labeled with a subset of tags to the dataset, replacing the `<dataset-id>` placeholder with the dataset ID output by the command in the previous step:

   ```sh {class="command-line" data-prompt="$"}
   viam dataset data add filter --dataset-id=<dataset-id> --tags=red_star,blue_square
   ```

{{% /tab %}}

> {{< tab name="Data Client API" >}}

Reviewer: This tab is currently broken. Try to change the `<` and `>` to `%` and see if that fixes it.

Author: Fixed!

To add an image directly to a dataset from a visual feed, complete the following steps:

1. Open the **TEST** panel of any camera or vision service component to view a feed of images from the camera.
1. Click the button marked with the camera icon to save the currently displayed image to a dataset:
   {{< imgproc src="/components/camera/add_image_to_dataset_button.png" alt="A button marked with the outline of a camera, emphasized in red" resize="800x" style="width:500px" class="imgzoom" >}}
1. Select an existing dataset.
1. Click **Add** to add the image to the selected dataset.
1. When you see a success notification that reads "Saved image to dataset", you have successfully added the image to the dataset.

To view images added to your dataset, go to the **DATA** page's [**DATASETS** tab](https://app.viam.com/data/datasets) in the Viam app and select your dataset.

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Many images" %}}

To capture a large number of images for training an ML model, [Capture and sync image data](/data-ai/capture-data/capture-sync/) using the data management service with your camera.

> Viam stores the images saved by capture and sync on the [**DATA** page](https://app.viam.com/data/), but does not add the images to a dataset. Visit the **DATA** page to add images to a dataset.

Reviewer: Maybe this since it's faster that way? 
```suggestion
Viam stores the images saved by capture and sync on the [**DATA** page](https://app.viam.com/data/), but does not add the images to a dataset.
We recommend you tag the images first and then use the CLI to [add the tagged images to a dataset](/data-ai/ai/create-dataset/#add-tagged-images-to-a-dataset).
```

{{< alert title="Tip" color="tip" >}}

Once you have enough images, consider disabling data capture to [avoid incurring fees](https://www.viam.com/product/pricing) for capturing large amounts of training data.

{{< /alert >}}
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Once you've captured enough images for training, you must annotate them to train a model.

## Annotate images

> Use the interface on the [**DATA** tab](https://app.viam.com/data/view) to label your images. Always follow best practices when you label your images:

Reviewer: We may need to here briefly provide an explanation as to what the different annotations do. Otherwise people will read from top to bottom and tag for classification before they realize there's a second option.

Author: Great point. I just switched the methods to tabs to avoid this potential area of confusion. I waffled on tabs vs. sections a few times as I reworked the page, but if someone else shares this same concern, it's probably worth accounting for!

   import asyncio

   from viam.rpc.dial import DialOptions, Credentials
   from viam.app.viam_client import ViamClient
   from viam.utils import create_filter
   from viam.proto.app.data import BinaryID

   async def connect() -> ViamClient:
       dial_options = DialOptions(
         credentials=Credentials(
           type="api-key",
           # Replace "<API-KEY>" (including brackets) with your machine's API key
           payload='<API-KEY>',
         ),
         # Replace "<API-KEY-ID>" (including brackets) with your machine's
         # API key ID
         auth_entity='<API-KEY-ID>'
       )
       return await ViamClient.create_from_dial_options(dial_options)

   async def main():
       # Make a ViamClient
       viam_client = await connect()
       # Instantiate a DataClient to run data client API methods on
       data_client = viam_client.data_client

       # Replace "<PART-ID>" (including brackets) with your machine's part id
       my_filter = create_filter(part_id="<PART-ID>")

       print("Getting data for part...")
       binary_metadata, _, _ = await data_client.binary_data_by_filter(
           my_filter,
           include_binary_data=False
       )

>        my_binary_ids = []

Reviewer: have you run this script? If you do have it currently set up it would be a good idea to remove the BinaryId usage here (it's deprecated for file id). Otherwise we'll want to file a follow up ticket

Author: I have run the script to prove that it works. But your question inspired me to dig a little bit deeper. It looks like `file_id` is the one that has been deprecated, but ironically the BinaryID Python type still includes a `file_id` field 🤷 . So we're stuck with it for now.

On the subject of the script itself: deeper testing revealed that the current script maxes out at 50 images (the default `limit` value). That's fine, if frustrating to users who want to exceed that limit, but don't know about the `limit` field in `binary_data_by_filter()`. But when I tried to set that limit higher, I realized that:

* if you mess up the part ID, the current script still creates an (empty) dataset
* if you configure the limit to something higher, the script hangs, potentially for a long time

So I updated the script to:

* query for data _before_ it creates the dataset
* use a configurable maximum number of results
* use the per-query `limit` field and `last` field to chain smaller requests and provide progress updates to avoid script 'hangs'
* use docstrings, formatted printing, and upfront configuration constants so users don't have to scroll all over the script to fill in their values (and elevated DATASET_NAME into the config constants so users won't miss it as easily as they used to)

tl;dr no need for a followup, unless it's filing a bug with the Python SDK for continuing to use `file_id` 😜

Author: Updated to remove all mention of BinaryID. Unfortunately, the add_binary_data_to_dataset_by_ids method call still uses the `binary_ids` field, and there's no way around it. But at least we aren't using anything deprecated any more.
